=== PAGE 1 ===
Data Engineering Assignment   
Goal  
In this exercise, you will play the role of a Data Engineer working with our business analysts to 
analyse an open-source dataset and build a data mart to answer some queries. You are asked to 
design and implement a cloud -based data processing architecture using AWS to solve the 
requirements described below. The answers for this activity will allow the business analyst to 
better understand how this data can be integrated with our current data and derive value.  
This task will allow us to judge your ability to analyse new source systems, and perform 
data profiling, data cleaning, data modelling and pipeline development skills.  
Data Set  
OpenAQ is a non -profit organisation that curates a data set of global, aggregated physical air 
quality measurements provided by governments and other sources. OpenAQ publishes its data 
to the AWS open data registry maintaining historical measurements in an S3 bucket and 
broadcasting new measurements in real time on an SNS topic. For now, you may load this single 
file with the assumption that your ingestion pipeline will take care of all history and future loads. 
https://openaq-data.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html 
Business Requirements  
Build a data mart hosted in redshift  (if you don’t have redshift use any database you are 
familiar with)  to enable BA to perform analysis on historical 201 7 air quality 
measurements.  
● Queries: The data mart must support the following analytic queries in a timely and cost 
optimised manner:  
○ For any given month find all cities with average monthly levels of carbon 
monoxide (CO) and sulphur dioxide pollution (SO2) in the 90th percentile 
globally.  
○ For any given day find the top 5 cities globally with the highest daily average levels of 
particle air pollution (PM2.5).  
○ For any given hour find the top 10 cities with the highest daily average levels of particle 
air pollution (PM2.5) and provide the mean, median and mode measures of carbon 
monoxide (CO) and sulphur dioxide pollution (SO2) for those cities on that day. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
○ For any given hour report an air quality index for each country. While you are free to 
compute this index in the manner that you see fit, it must take into account measures of 
particle air pollution, sulphur dioxide pollution, and carbon monoxide pollution. The index 
must have 3 discrete levels (high, moderate, and low).  
 
● Data quality: Your data mart should contain valid data only.  
○ Within reason, measurements that will adversely impact the accuracy of your 
analysis should be excluded from the data mart.  
○ A mechanism should be provided to report on bad data. Data quality reports will be run 
infrequently on an ad-hoc basis.  
○ Where timely data points are unavailable, you should interpolate as appropriate. 
 
Non-functional Requirements  
Your BA has provided the following non-functional requirements.  
● Scalability: While your prototype will only use OpenAQ data from 201 7 in the first 
instance, your design must be able to scale to terabytes of historical data from multiple 
additional sources.  
● Quality: The BA expects your prototype to provide the basis of a production -grade 
solution with minimal re -work. Your code should be readable, testable, and 
maintainable.  
Deliverables  
Propose an architecture to deploy the solution on AWS. Your solution should include the 
following.  
● An adequate explanation of your solution alongside an architecture diagram as well as 
the Database schema.  
● Source code (short comments are appreciated). You can use a programming language of 
your choice (Python Preferred).  
● All SQL queries to deliver the required data by BA.  
● Any key configurations that would help explain your solution (screenshots would suffice 
where appropriate). 
 
All the best! 
 

